# rdfdf

rdfdf - Functionality for rule-based `pandas.DataFrame` - `rdflib.Graph` conversion.

For representation of tabular data in RDF see Allemang, Hendler: Semantic Web for the Working Ontologist. 2011, 40ff.

> This project is in an early stage of development and should be used with caution.

## Requirements

* python >= 3.10

## Usage

For now rdfdf provides a `DFGraphConverter` class for rule-based `pandas.DataFrame` to `rdflib.Graph conversion`. 

A `GraphDFConverter` class for rule-based `rdflib.Graph` to `pandas.DataFrame` conversion will be implemented shortly.

### DFGraphConverter

Unlike [rdfpandas](https://github.com/cadmiumkitty/rdfpandas/) which requires URIRefs as column headers (and otherwise just creates invalid RDF with e.g. literals as predicates), rdfdf *computes* URIRefs (or Literals for triple objects) based on rules.

DFGraphConverter iterates over a dataframe and constructs RDF triples by constructing a generator of subgraphs ('row graphs') and then merging all subgraphs with an rdflib.Graph component.

Subgraphs are generated by

- for every row
  - for every rule in `column_rules`
    - looking up the `column_rules` key for the current row and calling the corresponding `column_rules` value.
	
`column_rules` values must be callables which are responsible for generating and returning a graph for merging.
`column_rules` callables are of arity 0 but have access to subject and object values from the table [anaphorically](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anaphoric_macro) as `__subject__` and `__object__` respectively (see examples below).

#### Parameters:

- dataframe: A pandas.DataFrame to be converted.

- `subject_column`: Selects a table column by name to be regarded as the column of triple subjects.

- `subject_rule`: Optional; either a `Callable[[str], URIRef]` or an `rdflib.Namespace` which gets applied to every field of the subject_column; 
if supplied, `__subject__` in the `column_rules` will be what `subject_rule` computes it to be; otherwise `__subject__` will be just the raw field value of the current `subject_column` and must be handled manually in order to be become a valid triple subject (i.e. a URIRef).

- `column_rules`: A mapping of column names to callables responsible for creating subgraphs ('row graphs'). As mentioned these callables have access to `__subject__` and `__object__` references.

- graph: Optional; allows to set the internal rdflib.Graph component.

#### Examples:







	
	


### GraphDFConverter
[todo]

## Contribution

Please feel free to open issues or pull requests.

